Flux get started intro and data model (#2619)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/flux/v0.x/get-started/data-model.md

---
title: Flux data model
description: >
  ...
menu:
  flux_0_x:
    name: Data model
    parent: Get started
weight: 101
---

> To fully understand how to use Flux to process your data, you must understand

Reviewer: Another option:

```suggestion
To get the most out of using Flux to process your data, you must understand
```

how Flux structures and operates on data.
The **Flux data model** is comprised of the following:

- [Stream of tables](#stream-of-tables)
- [Table](#table)
- [Column](#column)
- [Row](#row)
- [Group key](#group-key) 

{{< flux/data-model >}}

#### Stream of tables
A **stream of tables** is a collection of zero or more [tables](#table).

> Queried data sources return results as a stream of tables.

Author: "Flux queries" don't always return a stream of tables; "Data sources" (InfluxDB, CSV, MySQL, etc.) return a stream of tables.

#### Table

> A **table** is a collection of [columns](#column) partitioned by the [group key](#group-key).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **table** is a collection of [columns](#column) partitioned by [group key](#group-key).
```

#### Column
A **column** is a collection of values of the same [basic type](#)
that contains one value for each [row](#row).

#### Row
A **row** is a collection of associated [column](#column) values.

#### Group key

> A **group key** defines which column values to include in a table.

Author: If the column is in the group key, all the column values in the table will be the same. The group key is the driving force for how tables are structured; not the other way around.

All rows in a table contain the same values in group key columns.
All tables in a stream of tables have a unique group key, but group key
modifications are applied to a stream of tables.

> ##### Group key examples

Reviewer: Maybe:

```suggestion
##### Example group keys
```

> Group keys contain key value pairs where each key represents a column name and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Group keys contain key-value pairs, where each key represents a column name and
```

Queried sources return data structured into columnar tables that Flux understands.
What columns are returned and how tables are structured depends on the queried data source.
{{% /note %}}

## Operate on tables
At its core, Flux operates on tables.
Flux [transformations](/flux/v0.x/function-types/#transformations) take a stream
of tables as input, but operate on each table individually.
For example, aggregate transformations like [`sum()`](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/universe/sum/),
output a stream of tables containing one table for each corresponding input table:

{{< flux/table-ops >}}

## Restructure tables
All tables in a stream of tables are defined by their [group key](#group-key).
To change how data is partitioned or grouped into tables, use functions such as
[`group()`](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/universe/group/) or [`window()`](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/universe/window/)
to modify group keys in a stream of tables.

```js
data
  |> group(columns: ["foo", "bar"], mode: "by")
```

### Table grouping example
The tables below represent data returned from InfluxDB with the following schema:

- `example` measurement
- `loc` tag with two values
- `sensorID` tag with two values

> - `temp` and `hum` fields

Reviewer: These lines seem a little sparse...
